Additional star tree feedback. (#8650)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _search-plugins/star-tree-index.md

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/star-tree-index.png" alt="A star-tree index containing two dimensions and two metrics" width="700">

Sorted and aggregated STIX documents are backed by `doc_values` in an index. The columnar data found in `doc_values` are stored using the following properties:

> - The values are sorted based on the fields set in the `ordered_dimension` setting. The first field configured in `ordered_dimensions` are considered primary fields, and any corresponding fields of the primary are considered secondary.  In the preceding image, the dimensions are determined by the `status` setting and then by the `port` for each status.

Reviewer: Maybe we can just remove the following line ? since the image explanation might give the clarity the user needs ?

"""
The first field configured in `ordered_dimensions` are considered primary fields, and any corresponding fields of the primary are considered secondary. 
"""

- For each unique dimension/value combination, the aggregated values for all the metrics, such as `avg(size)` and `count(requests)`, are precomputed during ingestion.

### Leaf nodes

> Each node in a star-tree index points to a range of star-tree documents. Nodes can be further split into child nodes based on the [max_leaf_docs configuration]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/field-types/supported-field-types/star-tree/#stix-configuration-options). The number of documents that a leaf node points to is less than or equal to the number set by `max_leaf_docs`. This ensures that the maximum number of documents that need to traverse nodes to derive an aggregated value is at most the number of `max_leaf_docs`, which provides predictable latency.

Author: ```suggestion
Each node in a star-tree index points to a range of star-tree documents. Nodes can be further split into child nodes based on the [max_leaf_docs configuration]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/field-types/supported-field-types/star-tree/#stix-configuration-options). The number of documents that a leaf node points to is less than or equal to the value set in `max_leaf_docs`. This ensures that the maximum number of documents that need to traverse nodes to derive an aggregated value is at most the number of `max_leaf_docs`, which provides predictable latency.
```

> Each node in a star-tree index points to a range of star-tree documents. Nodes can be further split into child nodes based on the [max_leaf_docs configuration]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/field-types/supported-field-types/star-tree/#stix-configuration-options). The number of documents that a leaf node points to is less than or equal to the number set by `max_leaf_docs`. This ensures that the maximum number of documents that need to traverse nodes to derive an aggregated value is at most the number of `max_leaf_docs`, which provides predictable latency.

Reviewer: The number of documents that a leaf node points to is less than or equal to value set by `max_leaf_docs`. This ensures that the maximum number of documents that gets traversed to get to the aggregated value is at most the number of `max_leaf_docs`, thus providing predictable latency.

Author: You want to say "value" instead of "number"?

Reviewer: yes value to me sounds clearer

### Star nodes

> Star nodes are nodes which contain the aggregated data of all the other nodes in the same dimension. This helps when querying the aggregated vales of a particular field without traversing through all the nodes in a cluster. 

Author: ```suggestion
Star nodes contain the aggregated data of all the other nodes for a particular dimension, acting as "catch-all" node. When a star node is found in a dimension, that dimension is skipped during aggregation. This group all values of that dimension together. This allows a query to skip non-competitive nodes when fetching the aggregated value of a particular field. 
```

> Star nodes are nodes which contain the aggregated data of all the other nodes in the same dimension. This helps when querying the aggregated vales of a particular field without traversing through all the nodes in a cluster. 

Reviewer: I feel like this is not accurate - I think its a bit complex, lets go bit back and fro in the comments to get to the right wording. 

"""
Star Node (denoted by *) is a special node that contains the aggregated data of all the other nodes for a particular dimension. It acts as a wildcard or "catch-all" node. When you see a Star Node in a dimension, it means that dimension is skipped/ignored in aggregation, effectively grouping all values of that dimension together.

Thereby this helps in skipping non-competitive nodes and also in fetching aggregated document without traversing through all children nodes during query time.
"""

> A star node contains the aggregated data of all the other nodes for a particular dimension, acting as a "catch-all" node. When a star node is found in a dimension, that dimension is skipped during aggregation. This groups together all values of that dimension. This allows a query to skip non-competitive nodes when fetching the aggregated value of a particular field. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A star node contains the aggregated data of all the other nodes for a particular dimension, acting as a "catch-all" node. When a star node is found in a dimension, that dimension is skipped during aggregation. This groups together all values of that dimension and allows a query to skip non-competitive nodes when fetching the aggregated value of a particular field. 
```

> The star-tree index structure diagram contains the following three examples demonstrating how a query behaves when retrieving aggregations from nodes in the star-tree, from both the `status` and `port dimensions` and star nodes (indicated by the `*` symbol in the diagram):

Reviewer: the query uses star nodes, star tree as well as the documents, this wording seems to be specific about star nodes :

Maybe we can keep it short ?
"""
The star-tree index structure diagram contains the following three examples demonstrating how a query behaves when retrieving aggregations from STIX :
"""

> - **Blue**: In a `terms` query searching for the average request size aggregation, the `port` equals `8443` and the status equals `200`. Because the query contains values in both the `status` and `port` dimensions, the query traverses through staus node `200` and returns the aggregations from child node `8443`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Blue**: In a `terms` query that searches for the average request size aggregation, the `port` equals `8443` and the status equals `200`. Because the query contains values in both the `status` and `port` dimensions, the query traverses status node `200` and returns the aggregations from child node `8443`.
```

> - **Blue**: In a `terms` query searching for the average request size aggregation, the `port` equals `8443` and the status equals `200`. Because the query contains values in both the `status` and `port` dimensions, the query returns the aggregation from a non-star node.

Reviewer: """
Example of a `terms` query searching for the average request size aggregation, where the `port` equals `8443` and the status equals `200`. Because the query contains values in both the `status` and `port` dimensions, the query traverses via `200` status node and returns the aggregation from the `8443` child node.
"""

> - **Green**: In a `term` query searching for the count of requests aggregation, the `status` equals `200`. Because the query only contains a value from the `status` dimension, the query traverses to the `200` nodes child star node, which contains the aggregated vale of all the `port` children nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Green**: In a `term` query that searches for the number of requests aggregation, the `status` equals `200`. Because the query only contains a value from the `status` dimension, the query traverses the `200` node's child star node, which contains the aggregated value of all the `port` child nodes.
```

> - **Green**: In a `term` query that searches for the number of requests aggregation, the `status` equals `200`. Because the query only contains a value from the `status` dimension, the query traverses the `200` node's child star node, which contains the aggregated value of all the `port` child nodes.

Reviewer 2: "requests aggregation" => "request aggregations" or "aggregation requests"?

> - **Green**: In a `term` query that searches for the number of requests aggregation, the `status` equals `200`. Because the query only contains a value from the `status` dimension, the query traverses the `200` node's child star node, which contains the aggregated value of all the `port` child nodes.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Green**: In a `term` query that searches for the number of aggregation requests, the `status` equals `200`. Because the query only contains a value from the `status` dimension, the query traverses the `200` node's child star node, which contains the aggregated value of all the `port` child nodes.
```

> - **Red**: In a `term` query searching for the computed average request size aggregation, the port equals `5600`. Because the query does not contain a value from the `status` dimension, the query traverses through a star node and returns the aggregated result from the `5600` child node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Red**: In a `term` query that searches for the computed average request size aggregation, the port equals `5600`. Because the query does not contain a value from the `status` dimension, the query traverses a star node and returns the aggregated result from the `5600` child node.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Line 58: "number of requests aggregation" reads as incorrect. Do we mean something like "the number of aggregation requests"? Same on line 59: "the computed average request size aggregation" => "The computed average aggregation request size"?

Author: average request size aggregation

Support for the `Terms` query will be added in a future version. For more information, see [GitHub issue #15257](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/15257).
{: .note}

> ## Enabling a star-tree index

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Enabling a STIX
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/star-tree-index.png" alt="A star-tree index containing two dimensions and two metrics" width="700">

> Sorted and aggregated STIX documents are backed by `doc_values` in an index. `doc_values` use the following pattern:

Reviewer: Sorted and aggregated STIX documents are backed by `doc_values` in an index. The columnar data part of `doc_values` are stored with following properties :

### Star nodes

Star nodes are nodes which contain the aggregated data of all the other nodes in the same dimension. This helps when querying the aggregated vales of a particular field without traversing through all the nodes in a cluster. 

The star-tree index structure diagram contains the following three examples demonstrating how a query behaves when retrieving aggregations from nodes in the star-tree, from both the `status` and `port dimensions` and star nodes (indicated by the `*` symbol in the diagram):

> - **Blue**: In a `terms` query searching for the computed average request size aggregation, the port equals `8443` and the status equals `200`. Because the query contains values in both the `status` and `port` dimensions, the query returns the aggregation from a non-star node.

Reviewer: - **Blue**: Example of a `terms` query searching for the average request size aggregation, with query of port equals `8443` and the status equals `200`. The query traverses through `200` node in `status`  dimension and `8443` node in `port` dimensions, and returns the aggregation result.

> - **Green**: In a `term` query searching for the computed count of requests aggregation, the status equals `200`. Because the query only contains a value from the `status` dimension, the query returns the aggregation from a star node in the `port` dimension.

Reviewer: This is confusing 

```
- When the status equals `200`. The query traverses through the child star node of `200` node as it contains the aggregated value of all other children port nodes.
```

> - **Red**: In a `term` query searching for the computed average request size aggregation, the port equals `5600`. Because the query does not contain a value from the `status` dimension, the query traverses through a star node in the `status` dimension and returns the aggregation from a star node in the `port` dimension.

Reviewer: """
When the port equals `5600`. The query traverses through a star node in the `status` dimension because `status` is not present as part of the query and returns aggregated result from the `5600` child node
"""

## Example mapping

> In the following example, index mappings define the star-tree configuration. This star-tree index precomputes aggregations in the `logs` index. The aggregations are calculated for the `size` and `latency` fields for all the combinations of values indexed in the `port` and `status` fields:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following example, index mappings define the star-tree configuration. This STIX precomputes aggregations in the `logs` index. The aggregations are calculated on the `size` and `latency` fields for all the combinations of values indexed in the `port` and `status` fields:
```

> In the following example, index mappings define the star-tree configuration. This star-tree index precomputes aggregations in the `logs` index. The aggregations are calculated using the `size` and `latency` fields for all the combinations of values indexed in the `port` and `status` fields:

Reviewer: Nit: 
In the following example, index mappings define the star-tree configuration. This star-tree index precomputes aggregations in the `logs` index. The aggregations are calculated for the `size` and `latency` fields for all the combinations of values indexed in the `port` and `status` fields:

## Supported queries and aggregations

> STIX can be used to optimize queries and aggregations. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A STIX can be used to optimize queries and aggregations. 
```

- [Term query](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/query-dsl/term/term/)
- [Match all docs query](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/query-dsl/match-all/)

> To use queries with a star-tree index, the query's fields must be present in the `ordered_dimensions` section of the star-tree configuration. Queries must also be paired with a supported aggregation. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use a query with a star-tree index, the query's fields must be present in the `ordered_dimensions` section of the star-tree configuration. Queries must also be paired with a supported aggregation. 
```

}
```

> With STIX, the result will be retrieved from a single aggregated document as it traverses to the `status=500` node, as opposed to scanning through all of the matching documents. This results in lower query latency.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using a STIX, the result will be retrieved from a single aggregated document as it traverses the `status=500` node, as opposed to scanning through all of the matching documents. This results in lower query latency.
```

> ## Using queries without STIX

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Using queries without a STIX
```

> Set the `indices.composite_index.star_tree.enabled` setting to `false` to run queries without using a star-tree index.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set the `indices.composite_index.star_tree.enabled` setting to `false` to run queries without using a STIX.
```
